# RGB-and-CYM

original request (before rephrasing):

request: change colour properties in GUI helpfiles to change RGBWK / CYMWK, not just RGB

hi,

I realise RGB is enough to get the full spectrum of colours - RGBCYMWK. however it can be a lot more convenient, e.g. if you have a red that you just want to be a little darker to have RGBWK, because then all you have to do is adjust the white or black settings rather than adding a little more green and a little more black. I have coded it so the white and black is a percentage of RGB - so adjusting that obviously you could get e.g. an 40-60% blue if you wanted a medium dark blue. or if you want a light pastel green, you just start with a fully saturated green (100% green, 100% white) then add 80% red and 80% blue. RGBWK seems to me an improvement on the old system (I have coded it so you start with 80% white and if you decrease white it appears to increase black and vice versa) and I have managed to get Pd to translate that into hexadecimal, at least.

as for cyan yellow and magenta, again I don't know much about colour theory but as I understand it, CYM are the subtractive primaries as compared to RGB which are the additive primaries. physicists tend to prefer RGB because those colours represent the spectrum of light whereas CYM is more for painters I believe, for reasons I'm not really sure of. either way you can get RGB from CYM and reverse too (you can get CYM from RGB). one advantage I did spot was that whereas RGBWK will let you get pastel red, green or blue easily, you could switch to CYMWK to get pastel cyan, yellow or magenta without changing over too rapidly. I demonstrate this in a short video I did as a demo of a patch. the patch is an upgrade on the help file "colors" accessed through the canvas help file, and then properties. the patch you can access in my github repository (insert link). as for the video demo, it is available in that same repository. the patch I did includes RGBWK and CYMWK, obviously, whereas the original just had RGB. I'm not saying developers will want to simply substitute my help file for the old one - they may want to make some changes or build from scratch entirely - for example the vsliders on my version don't move up and down very smoothly, why I don't know. but it could be helpful to look at as some sort of template. if it could be improved even further to get the kind of pastel green I described, that would be exceptional. obviously I got this green from canvas --> properties on Pd. but doing it that way is not as powerful as it is if you can use sliders to incrementally change your colours - hues, tints, shades, tones, etc.
